Chapter 1


        My mom and I have been “beefing” recently. Nothing major, just the idea my usual confident self isn’t giving her the reassurances she needs. Even though it doesn't look like it, I'm starting to actually believe my new plan will yield the best result. …….Sam that’s convenient. It is, but it's either one of two things. Either I truly believe the path I'm taking is best or i’m able to persuade and convince the harshest critic, myself, that i'm back. I’ll take either one…you pick…..ideally it's both. No, ultimately its both. One just needs to break through and the other will follow. I remind myself during these trying times to be self-aware, see whats working and see what isn’t because if this ever happens again, I’ll know where to lean and what to avoid. The learning curve will be so much shorter. I’ll admit, this “purge” has been long and rough but in return, I expect any future meltdown to be short-lived and very private. Like a file that is placed on your desktop, processed and retrived quickly. 


         Anywho, so my mom hasn’t bought in yet because i'm holding this one close to the vest. Reverting to antiquated philosophies that worked in the past, shutting the frickin up and trying to figure a way. Whatever, my success isn’t dependent on me vocalizing it. If for some reason this superstition makes me feel like I have an edge, so be it. I’ll deal with the constant questioning, hopefully, in a polite way but at the end of the day me fixing my problems will help alleviate any stresses or tensions in the household.


        I must admit, I'm kind of a jerk. Not really wanting to listen, hesitant to start a give/take conversation unless I see a clear way out. I'm abrupt ….but in my defense, I'm transparent. I fully admit to anyone who listens, I'm a doo-doo head and, at the moment, terrible to be around. I ask to be left alone not because my mom is super annoying per say–which she is– but I worry my response is disproportionate to the agitation. Aware, that I’m not a delight to be around, Ill take any olive branch and run with it–the best kind, the edible one.


        On my moms way home from work she texts me asking what I want from dinner. She stressed, she’s tired, she sees the “man” of the house sitting home and essentially doing nothing  while she’s working overtime on a sunday, nonetheless. Is she working on a sunday because we need the money or are they just short staffed or Is she bored at home? Not sure, but all three illicit a type of guilt that makes me jump at the chance of making amends. With her traveling between states taking bus and subways, the least I can do is go pick up and pay for dinner. 


After an unnecessary amount of back and forth text messages where shes trying to be diplomatic and accomadating, politely asking me to make a food selection that makes me happy…. Great. I’m the jerk whose sitting home doing nothing and this lady who just worked a long shift with an even longer commute on the lords day–something she holds near and dear to her heart— of all days, still has the patience and selflessness to insist I decide where we get takeout….. I'm pretty sure she does this on purpose. Understanding that the worse weapon in her arsenal isn’t yelling or screaming, but it’s the guilt she instills by doing nice things on days in which her sacrifices are easily seen. It’s unparalleled. Its undefeated. It’s the torture the CIA should be using at black sites all over the world. Water-boarding pails in comparison to the weight mom’s guilt inflicts. 


Regardless, we settle on chicken parm heros, partly because its ends a text chain that reeks of “no….. whatever you want”, mainly it’s something I know shes likes. We usually order using uber eats but I for some reason dont get as many free credits as she does and i’ve already committed to ordering, paying and picking up the food so i’ll hit up Jerry's, a place that isn’t really around the corner but close enough and with it’s limited parking, you can’t justify driving. I decide to call up instead of ordering online, my order is simple enough with no modifications that speaking to someone for a minute is easier then messing around with the website and putting in my credit card info. A young-ish women with a little rasp in her voice picks up the phone and takes my order; “About twenty minutes”. Perfect for a much needed leisurely stroll. 


I throw on some clothes and head out. I have a groufit that hangs over the chair, easily accessible and worn often. Something that’s perfectly acceptable in the post pandemic world and matches my mood. But there is still something about me leaving the house in sweatpants that just irks me. Never really embraced sweatpants as “outside” clothes. Now, I do wear them on trips before or after the gym but that's really it. I feel the most comfortable in jeans or these new cloth like pants that from a-far looks like dress pants but have a casual feel/look. Think male jeggings of the corporate world for people who are trying to get a 9-5 so they feel like a productive member of society.  Even in a not so great mental state, what I wear outside still means a lot to me.  I guess thats a good thing right? I'm sure this hack of a therapist, that I’ve recently been seeing, would be concerned if I have zero pride in my appearance. And as I reflect, I do have pride in appearance, more so on what makes up the canvas, not what covers it. So maybe that's peak confidence, dressing appropriately. Over dressed on the regular may be like adding a ton of a hot sauce to a dish while under dressed is just bland “home on the range” food, no spice—with all the best features getting lost in the monotomy. With that said I do like getting decked out every once in a while. The hot sauce is overwhelming but easy to digest in small doses.  


I grab my wallet and keys and my newly prized possession, my head phones. Like a helmet for a football player, this is what keeps the pressure of the outside world from getting to me as my panic attacks are more frequent nowadays. They create a buffer between my thoughts and the real world. They serve as a way of not having to interact with my surroundings or people in the most polite way. I can’t hear you so it was never said. If it was never said then I don’t need to think about. It's so cliche but at the end of day  I just value some semblance of peace. I do worry that I revert back to an angsty teenage but with some bomb choice in headphones. Shout out the entry level sony bluetooth noise cancelling headphones. I've driven you into the ground. The cushions smells atrocious, something I didnt even know was possible. Guess the realness of my music choices helps plunge out all impurities from my mind, body and soul. (Music choices that serve as the unofficial soundtrack to my writing)


Regardless, I start my journey towards Jerry's. Walking with purpose still taking in my surroundings which is especially easy on a Sunday night in my quiet neighborhood. Ironic because only a few blocks away, closer to the George Washington Bridge, traffic is a nightmare with the “bridge and tunnel crowd” racing back to the city. Ironic because New Yorkers usually look down on Jersey. Even though they spend their precious weekends enjoying it’s amenities. Ironic because their weekend recharge is far from their coveted concrete jungle. New Yorker’s adore New York, romanatizie it early and often but understand that spending time away from it, when they can, only creates a stronger bond. Crazy how areas separated by a few blocks can be so different on the same evening. As I start walking up the hill to the main road, anderson avenue, I begin to really appreciate the life that puts me on this side of town on an evening known for it’s scaries. 
 
As I continue on level ground, I take note of this main road, one that I traveled many times during decades of living here. Like myself, the road and what surrounds it have changed. Outsider’s scream gentrification, commercialization and loss of charm when comparing Anderson ave now and then. While the stores start to look a little more cookie cutter and a little more strip mall in tampa–very urban planner’s wet dream–there are only a few well known “franchisey” businesses. The look isnt a mask or a take over by the corporate world but instead the grit, cleverness and openness of a community on display. Most of these stores look new and shiny but bear names of local business. Stores who understand that putting your head in the sand and screaming “support local businesses” is ineffective and hurtful to the community it serves. Businesses that value delivering the highest quality product to their community, so much so, they do not shy away from integrating novel aspects of other companies into their product, even at the expense of admitting that their previous product wasn’t perfect.