Chapter 2


       As I start to shake off the zoning out, which usually happens when I overthink, I realize I’m right where I should be. Jerry's is a cool-looking place on the outside. Inviting, with chairs and tables set up outside on a wide sidewalk at the corner of a quieter part of Anderson avenue. As I walk in, I can’t help but to get nostalgic vibez from this clean, up-to-code, updated 1970’s pizzeria. Maybes its Sal’s pizzeria from do the right thing. Maybe that's the look they were going for or maybe that's what I want it to be. As I head to the counter I notice a family in the back corner, here every time I am……. The chances of us being here at the exact time are slim, especially when my trips to jerry's are random with no rhyme or reason. So I guess they are regulars…..or the owners of Jerry's planted them to give them the place family vibes. Something they couldn't achieve with decor, instead enlisting the help of good-hearted people in bringing the place together. More so than any generic piece of art or gaudy talking piece could ever do. Like hot social girls at a club, except this family is a tad overweight–a testament to the food–wholesome and aren't trying to get you to buy a new bottle. They do share one thing in common though—with the girls who are on and setting the scene—they won't screw you.
 
	As I make my way to the counter I take note of whose back there and their roles. Closer to the pizza showcase you have two young ladies, maybe in their early twenties. One’s finishing bagging an order and the other ringing up the customer ahead of me. They look alike, confirming my preconceived notion that they are sisters. Holding in their agitation for one another, knowing their mother, who happens to be standing close behind, scolds them for having it out with each other in front of customers. I remember, from the last time I was there, the mother expressing this issue with her plants……I mean lovable “customers”. Something about telling her kids to love one another, especially now that one is a mother and the other a beloved aunt. I’m guessing 

	The tone seems to have shifted, since the last time I was here, as she keeps her eyes laser-focused on both of them. She’s given up on pumping them with granola lines like “you should really love one another……you’re all ya got”, instead appealing to their practical side; Don’t be at each other's throats, in front of customers because it's bad for business. The sisters seem similar enough, in mannerisms, which makes their disdain for one another  completely understandable. Living and working with your sister, as each tries to stand out and establish their own identity, must be tough. They are both easy on the eyes and quick to come up with a smile when a customer approaches. I’m really intrigued by both of them, but the mother seems to be the main character of this story.
