Chapter 4

 	Fast forward as the two enter high-school; things seem great. They are giving each other pecs in public and making out in private. Ivan's content, for now, slowing down Bonnie’s suggestion to try things bern showed her in biology books. Unsure if he's ready he suggests they study, substituting a cold shower for thermo-chemistry, something he's taking a liking to but unsure if he’s any good. Ivan's fervor isn’t just limited to every other Thursdays 3-4 in Bonnie’s room while Sylvana is at the nail salon with Bernadette's mother. His passion extends to the classroom, making the honor roll and signing up for advanced classes—even as the peanut gallery sighed worried this may take his focus away from sports, particularly baseball something he played all his life but only really started to show glimpses of brilliance sophmore year. Dropping the high note for the high heat. 

	Bonnie “wanting to set a good example as a studious big sister for Dave”.....also wanting to make sure none of these book-worm-bitches—as Bonnie likes to call them—gave Ivan any anatomy tutoring, begins to push herself academically. Signing up for the same advanced classes as Ivan. The academic rigors are tough for both of them, but more so Bonnie. With this in mind, she decides to be the bigger person. Trust Ivan alone with the Elizabeth Holmes wannabes? LOL no. She decides to put her differences aside and enlist the help of Bernadette  whose got hours logged in at the library,  Bonnie, embracing forgiveness, sets aside the fact Bern looks in her closet for clothing ideas and then wear’s them first making her look like the poser—dumb stuff between best friends. More importantly, she will turn a blind eye to Bernadette’s mom giving her father googly eyes whenever she can, something Bonnie and Bernadette notice…and are both sicken by…and can’t stop. 

	With her likely partner in crime, Bernadette and Bonnie begin the educational grind. Taking no prisoners. Really excelling in science, something that carries all the way through senior year, but not so much in politics. With three years behind bonnie decides to take a new fork, deviating from ivan whose taking an easier courseload focused on his last year of baseball trying to impress people who can tip the scales in his favor, taking AP bio. With a new year ahead of them, paths uncertain, Bonnie and Bern make friends with Spence, a kid who just moved here from the private school for reasons unknown. Guess all that kumbaya, at the school where they worship kale worked because he's really smart and ace’s tests with ease and starts thought provoking conversations in class.  He’s a bit awkward but Bonnie and Bernadette see potential. They wanna get in on the ground floor of this friendship before his insecurities die down and begins to open up to others. Its the mean girl’s playbook but, unlike them, its well-intentioned. 

	Spencer, Bern and big textbooks become a fixture in Bonnies household, so much so they take over Dave rooms as he has a bigger desk, something his parents bought him as an incentive to study. The studying doesn’t stop there as now the back corner of the restaurant becomes a pseudo study nook, drawing the help of staff and customers alike. Bernadette would even cover Bonnie’s tables when the noise from the restaurant stopped her from studying.  They got a mission equally motivated, Bonnie for obvious reasons but more Bernadette for more earnest ones; solidifing their friendship,  not only valuing Bonnie's friendship but her families. Bonnie’s family has stability and love that goes deeper than anything she’s ever felt or known before. That’s probably what attracts Bernadette mom, Alice, to Jimmy. Bernadette's mom may be giving signs of sexual attractions, or so the silent minority thinks, but it's more that she yearns for security, something Bernadette's father lacks,  a scientist who works a ton. Maybe each struggle with the age-old dilemma of the grass being greener on the other side….till you walk on that side and step in shit. 

	Ivan takes notes of Bonnie’s new drive and determination and digs it. He’s happy bonnie is taking interest in things he values while also developing a deep friendship with someone he’s cool with.  He was actually friends with Bernadette first as they grew up playing baseball till highschool, when all the girls broke off into softball. He gets some shit from the baseball team as guys in a locker room do, specifically about Bonnie not being at his beck and call. Something Roger like to point out aloud. Roger is the star of the baseball team, as his little league days precede him. Doesn’t hurt that his dad and uncle have been training him since inception. Roger is very very very good. Kid is a machine. Like the russian boxer in rocky who bangs the girl who later on, in real life, ends up with flava flav. Worse to get cuckold by flava flav in a movie or in real life? Not too sure. 

	Anyway, on paper roger is a bonafide stud but there is glaring hole in his game. Intangibles, something thats often written on his performance evaluations from all 3 private coaches….. he’s fired. Maybe they are just trying to get him to sign up for more sessions. Accolades and attributes aside,  for some reason coach takes him out of the game at the end of the 7th.  Regardless of pitch count, 70 or 120…..don’t matter…he gone. Even if he’s wheeling and dealing. Others tell Roger this is just the coach getting other players some playing time….but again this isn’t a division or era where participation trophies are even a thing……Something, again, this friend group knows all to well. 

    “Damn dude, Bonnie’s been looking good ever since shes got that new friend. Probably gives her nice things. Guess she wants some better prep-school sauce-sage.” Roger says dogging on Ivan at one of the first fall training workouts as the baseball team keep to their pack of forgoing their winter sports to play some indoor-baseball preparing for a season where college scouts are watching and beloved seniors are looking to make some noise 

	Roger clearly hasn’t saved any of Ivan's best disses but reminds Ivan that Bonnie’s spending a lot of time with spencer. Ivan’s stoic  hearing these whispers that aren’t so soft. But in this moment he doesn’t respond as he just came out of coaches office a little dazed and overwhelmed.  Yousef, unsure if ivan is pissed or deep in mediation, interjects 

	“Yeah Roger, prep-school kid is legit. I heard coach asked Bern and Bonnie to recruit hi'm to close out your games”. Ivan bursts out-laughing–something he rarely does…as that comeback is way better than anything he’s mumbled. Yousef tries to hold back a smile but can’t, instead it runs from ear to ear  spiking Roger's unintentional set up. Something he does a lot of. 

	Yousef and Ivan are boys, males yes but a term of endearment synonymous with brothers, growing up in the same apartment building. Yousef is tan and lanky with small teeth. He’s very funny, not sure if he got his humor from Ivan or vice versa. He’s got a big mouth—but uses it wisely— and a big bat, hitting 5th, last year, leading the league in triples but like Bonnie and ivans sex life, no home runs.  Quick witted and a teller of tall tales–a product of havng a strict mom. Yousef isn’t a loner per se as he appears outgoing and social but enjoys quiet time in his room  living in a loud household that’s very reliant on him.  No one really has any glaring issues with him—besides occasionally frustrating his teachers as he often speaks out of turn not intending to be disrespectful, just got a lot to say. With that in mind, yousef isn’t afraid to have his friends back even, when the time comes. 

	Ivan and Yousef have a bond that's tried and true, that endures yousef flakiness when it comes time to hang out outside of school. Not friends out of convenience but out of curiosity and mutual admiration.  Make no mistake, Yousef looks up to Ivan viewing himself as Rich Paul, lucky that lebron wants to be his friend.  Ivan and yousef walk from their apartment building to school every morning talking about everything. The world,  seen by two students from elementary school till now. Questioning what is what. A little more cynical then other kids their age, first ones in grade school to question Santa Clause viability, but not so hardened to lose their nativity–stern believers in other unexplainable mysteries. Yousef is the dreamer, for sure, but dont tell hi'm that. He’s ashamed of it hating to be caught off-guard and views being idealistic as a weakness that hampers his ability to anticipate the bad and see the evil in others. 
He proves himself right, cherry picking examples where doing the right thing doesn’t get you the right thing, a viewpoint Bonnie agrees with.  Willing to  shares his views–even the ones he himself thinks are crazy–and hot takes with ivan, something ivan is thankful for. They each have a practical view of the world, they aren’t trying to change it or be revolutionaries–a luxury reserved for those with resources or those who drink the kool-aid/kumbacha cocktail or never get ahead. Yousef always says if your a revolutionary you’re either a genius or an idiot and the only way to tell is by looking at the scoreboard at the end of the game. Neither are Thomas Edison… a nerd,  who def had no electricity in his fastball. Nor  mickey mantle getting blowjobs under the bleachers and don’t get by only on the “pop of their bat”  with baseball–as they view it–is only a way to get some looks or scholarship money from colleges they couldn’t get into otherwise. A mean to an ends so to speak.  

	Moreover, they are trying to understand the rules of the game of life and how they can carve out their path. Leveraging their strengths while building up their weaknesses. Trying to thread the needle of ambition but virtuous— hoping the sweet spot between the two leads to the greatest of prizes. Something many have tried and failed–amplifying one in spite of the other. A difficult tight rope to walk; No doubt.  

	Both cherish these walks and are bumed they can’t continue after school, Yousef entrusted to walk to his sister, Ola, back to their apartment before mom shows up. Maybe this is a good thing because the guys rise and grind for school like clock-work; excited for the journey even if only a way ticket and  in the face of a dreaded destination, but one they put blind faith in.  

	Roger’s allergy to clutch and whack jokes aside, ivan is still pleased the killer b’s are doing there own thing. It frees up his schedule taking odd jobs–generously offered by people around who town who want to keep Ivan away from hanging with his cousin— in town doing construction to make a few bucks–yousef tagging along when he can. Yousef not the best at construction but can talk shit like he’s got a PHD in fork-lift operating.They even take dave along  who trades apprenticeship and manual labor for some mentorship and impromptu math tutoring, something Ivan and Yousef are happy to provide as it passes the time. 
Fall is giving way to the beginning of winter. A season Jimmy loves. Big holiday season guy? Ehh more like, less picnics more sit down dinners for “friends” and customers alike. The  season that brings the year from red to black 

	Bonnie follows the good vibes, starting to get the hang of this whole beauty and a book thing. Double threat is alway a good thing,  noticing how the “Saturday night guys” talk to their girlfriends who aren’t well-read, when she’s waitressing. She gets some dirty looks from 26-year-old sally– with the short skirt in the prime of her appeal— as she takes their order while engaging the table effortlessly, a confidence that’s a product of her past years of hard work that shines in new-found sense of self-worth. She looks back and smiles, understanding why sallys giving her a stank face and is very cool with it, heck even flattered. All is well……….til it's not. 

