Chapter 5

	One Tuesday afternoon with both Alice and Sylvana  at the hair salon, Bernadette puts their friendship to a true test. …The watershed moment that’s inevitable in any friendship/relationship—maybe not this extreme– but one that will fortify their bond or snap it.  In an empty house and with the door shut, at Bernadette's behest, Bern drops a bomb…... 

	She's pregnant…….DAMN……… She’s late on her period prompting a visit to the corner store. Stealth she is not,sprinting past a confused lars who was never the wiser, eyes elsewhere with Bern’s paranoia her only enemy. Bonnie, initially shocked, starts putting the pieces together. 6 weeks ago Bernadette complained  of nausea  on a monday morning, leaving in the middle of first period and asking for gum when she came back—after having dinner at the restaurant. Clearly, it wasn't the food Jimmy and Vana manning  the kitchen and their food is top notch .  Bonnie, unsure of how this happened under her watch. Selfishly, she hurts and begins questioning her eyes. “How can bern not tell me this? We are friends. I thought we were both virgins. I haven’t even gone that far with Ivan.” 

	Bern starts to ball her eyes out as shes thinking the same thing plus the fact….oh btw, she has baby growing inside of her. A baby shes not sure what she’ll do with . A baby that may alter the trajectory of the next 18 years….minimum.  Bonnie consoles her, waiting as long as her curiosity lets her before asking the next logic question. Whose the father?
Bernadette calmer, after aggressively drinking water on the desk and getting her back rubbed by bonnie,  thinking clearly,  blurts out. I dont know. 

“Bernadatte you don’t know” bonnie says. Bernadette your not exactly ho’ing it up as your name suggests. Candy? Yes. Misty? Sure. Bernadette?!?!?!?! This all sounds a little odd through bonnie’s eyes. Bern barely wear’s makeup and they’ve cut down on friday football games/parties as quarterly exam approached. Bonnie is genuinely shocked….. theres supply for bernadette’s beaver and even more surprised there's demand. Thankfully, bonnie having some basic decency does not say any of this…….. outloud  Bern embarrassed, feeling judged,  grabs her stuff and leaves, telling bonnie “i need some time to think, ill see you in school.” 

	Bonnie knows she should run after her but she  freezes in the moment, processing  emotions. How could she be so clueless about her best-friend? This makes no sense. Bonnie throws the books off the dining room and table and takes out a blank piece of paper from the back of her notebook. She’s going to venn-diagram the shit out of this problem, partly to help her friend but more to identify her blind spots. 

	Bonnie starts her progressions….. Ok mondays, we spend most of the day preparing for the week studying here. Spencer, Bernadette and I. Spencer walks beneradette home and he’s always tired on tuesday morning. Maybe bernadette eagerness to help me was a way to get to spencer. Easier to approach a guy when theres two of us, one with a serious boyfriend. I can see that…bernadette trying to getting to the top just to give it….Clearly a little more than that. Spencer prime suspect numero uno. Bonnie continues due diligence.  

	Ok wednesdays she’s at softball practice but none of the players on that team have a penis. Except the coach…. who doesn’t actually have a penis but the rumor mill says otherwise. Softball coach has a penis…classic. Hmmmm but the softball team gets out the same time as the baseball team. Who on the roster would Bernadette be interested in? Roger? Bernadette would probably hook up with Roger but would Roger be willing to put in the effort? Is this the intangible all his coaches were talking about? Worked for Mickey Mantle and Wilt Chamberlain…I guess.  Bonnie adds hi'm to the suspect list.

	Yousef? Hmmm. He has just as much opportunity as Roger and is more up Bernadette’s ally. Both have noses in the books, Bern fiction Yousef more textbooks– and they would strangely make a cute couple. Yousef probably put some voodoo hex on her with sophisticated words…… Shout out yousef.  Bonnie diversifies the list 

Awww me and Ivan are dating and now our best friends are too. Double dates would be so easy. I'll ask mom to buy a booster seat for the restaurant…... Shit. Yousef’s mom’s really strict. They are going to kill him. No wonder why Bernadette didn’t tell me…..ugh. I better go and help her figure out what “we” should do.

	Bonnie puts her coat on, grabs her book bag–as not to raise any suspicions—and races out the door, headed to Bernadette house. Bonnie puts on the jets getting there in record time, slowing down a block away. Walking the rest of the way. Her body’s got adrenaline pumping and her legs could surely go for another block, but her mind kicks in. What the hell am I going to say when I see her parents? I don't know if she spilled the beans and I'm not the best at keeping secrets—something everyone knows. “Alright Bonnie, relax” Bonnie tells herself. Play it cool. Read the room, if her mom is acting weird then she knows. If she's cool then we all good.

Bonnie approaches the steps of bernadette's home, a beautiful two-story home nestled between the park and a main road with a sharp bend thats forces pedestrians to look both ways. The door opens, as bonnie gives three loud knocks…and holds her breath. There’s Bern’s mom, Alice, holding a drink and smiling back, happy to see Bonnie. Praise the lord Bonnie thinks….wait is she drinking because shes stressed? Is she drinking because she just murdered her daughter? Bonnie surveys the room, Alice is a litte tipsy but no signs of rage or blood.

“Hi Mrs. bernadette mom, I just came over to do some last minute studying with Bern.” Bonnie says
“Hi sweetie, bern isn’t here. She went over to apartments,  doin’ some studying…… I thought you were with her??” Alice replies. Bonnie thinks fast, as the adrenaline from her legs has finally reached her brain. 
“Oh yes, ugggh so stressed over this test I completely forgot. Ill head over there now” 
“Ok sweetie be safe” Alice replies thinking nothing of this
“You too” bonnie replies as she sprints off to the apartment. 

She  turns the jets back on, through the little league baseball field  and up the hill making a B-line towards yousef apartment. Running past the doorman whose got his nose in the newspaper, composing herself on the second floor landing. Opening a heavy door with an eye-level cut out window to a dimly lit carpeted hallway with a textured rock-like walls that make you keep your distant  . Bonnie puts on a best poker face, aware Linda’s—Yousef mom– doesn’t drink and is super intuitive just like both her kids. 

“Who is it” a high pitch voice calls out.
“Hi… it’s Bonnie is Yousef home?” She says
Ola, yousef sister,  rushes to open the door, a fan of   Bonnie who always makes a point of talking to her at the pizzeria. 
“THANK GOD”  Ola says,  opening the door. 
“Hi ola, is anyone home?” Bonnie says 
“No” ola replies 
“Oh ok …….then where’s yousef” bonnie replies
“He went to ivans but he told me not to tell anybody because hes not allowed to leave me home alone” Ola responds confidently; Ola’s natural vernacular 
“Did anyone else come by like Bern or Ivan”. Bonnie asks friendly
“No” ola responds
“Ok gotcha, yeah I think Yousef needs to borrow some notes, i'm sure he will be back soon, just don't open the door for anyone besides him. Stranger danger” Bonnie responds adding a responsible tidbit at the end.  Ola shouts bye back, shutting the door and deadbolting it, something bonnie  listens for before she steps on the elevator. Next stop the 6th floor, Ivan–her boyfriend’s apartment.


