Chapter 3

	She doesn’t recognize me and I keep it that way, eyes glued to the ground, hood up, playing with my phone but her name is Mary.  Mary grew up in the restaurant industry as Jerry was her great-grandfather. Every day after school she ran over to the shop her grandparents took over, even on the days when her mother wasn’t working there. She learned through looking and asking but never got any hands-on practice. She is very skilled in dealing with the front end, just like her mother, but only really puts her hand on a pot or pan if the business is in dire straits.  It’s clear her grandparents skill in the kitchen never rub off on Mary.  Mary would tell you the root cause is not enough practical experience. You can only learn so much watching from the dining room, especially when you have one eye on the door–calling out when customers come in. 

	Bonnie-Mary’s mother, David-Bonnie’s brother and grandparents, Sylvana and Jimmy mainly ran the shop with Mary around for moral support and her father helping here and there. David, an average height guy in his early 50’s with dark hair. A bachelor by all accounts who could pull but is more into long-term relationships, as he when he loves he loves hard…..only way he knows how.  He seems nice but in reality, he’s a jerk, a man who views himself as the restauranter extraordinaire. Looks like Bobby Flay but acts like Gordon Ramsay on steroids. Cliche I know. Not entirely his fault. His parents were extremely nurturing and supportive. Putting report cards littered with D’s, just like the women he attracts, on the fridge at home. David and Bonnie’s grandparents, who died before either were born, were super-tough on Jimmy and Sylvana,  bordering on bullying. Maybe it stemmed from the struggles endured coming to america. Being in a strange country where the “strong survive” seeps into one’s pores and personality especially when language is a barrier. A mindset that makes it easy to confuse friends and enemies. 

	Jimmy and Sylvana swore never to raise their children like that .… Trying their best to be loving and nurturing but fell short of separating home life from work. In turn, giving their son God-like confidence while shielding him the difficulties of life. Often causing Bonnie and David to butt heads,  where david was often the aggressor–particularly as they got older and started working side by side in the restaurant. Bonnie naturally gravitated to the front end. She’s a knockout, curvy–she thinks she's fat….she’s wrong…… with long brown hair that’s often in a bun. Bonnie’s looks could make any customer uneasy, but that would soon dissipate after a few minutes of conversation as her happy face, subtle smile, and playful eyebrow raise combined with the easiness of her voice soothe strangers initial sticker shock. Something she can turn on and off, fortunately the restaurant’s atmosphere held that button down.  Bonnie’s presence in the front end gave David a path to the kitchen, one that he claimed and never let go of.  Never letting Bonnie and by extension Mary in the kitchen. 

	Maybe David is progressive? Forward-thinking? Big fan of role reversal and empowering his sister into more of a client facing role?. LOL. No. More of a territorial thing than an affinity for cooking. Bonnie didn’t necessarily take this lying down as her soft appearance is some highly developed evolutionary camouflage for a rough interior that rears its ugly head when she’s attacked or threatened. But her appeasent, letting David monopolize the kitchen was more listening to her parents' silence than backing down from David's “man-spread”. She adored them but more importantly, she respected their business acumen. She followed them not out of blind love–because thats never been bonnie’s style— but because she saw through other avenues their smarts and business savvy. The restaurant is their main business venture–and as the restaurant went so did they–but they diversified their investments,  a little here and there on the block. Crack? Mafia ties? Lol no. Investing in dull products like a local grocer and a hardware store in return for shares of the profit. Silent partners whose wisdom was sought often.  No contract, no accounting just one another’s words. Something Mary and David couldn’t believe whenever her grandparents tell the story. How could they just trust random people? Both, Mary and David, subscribers to the belief that people aren’t bad but they aren’t exactly immaculate; At the end of the day, they are human. Maybe it wasn’t that Mary's grandparents trusted the individual grocer or hardware store owner but they trusted people and their community….because betting against the people of this community is always a losing one. 

	So with this–at least through Bonnie’s eyes–maybe Marys grandparents, Jimmy and Sylvana,  saw something in David that Bonnie didn’t. They have more experience with people, refined eye in looking for green flags; hunchs they trusted but had a hard time explaining.  Explanations that werent necessary as Bonnie couldn’t fathom, that their love for their only son could ever cloud their judgment–a testament to the respect and patience she has for her parents. So when the benefit of the doubt arose, it always fell at her parents' feet. Whenever the feeling of getting the short end of the stick crept into her mind, Bonnie grounded herself and rationally came to the conclusion…maybe she was biased. Bonnie’s competitive—at least through her eyes— and maybe her competitive nature stops her from seeing the talent in others. She’s self-aware, when she chooses to be, and introspective so she doesn’t let her stink linger about her brother's role in the business and lets time render the final settlement on her parents' bet. 

	On the other hand her daughter–Mary a spunky young lady with her mother's eyes and brown hair that curls if isn’t straighten daily– is not about that life. Mary hated how rude Dave was to her mother. More importantly, he frickining sucked. He couldn’t cook so save her life. In her tirades, Mary wouldn’t even bring up how Friday and Saturday nights he was out with his friends drinking, because honestly, that was the best thing he ever did. At least he wasn’t cooking during the busiest nights of the week. On those nights, the professionals got to run their kitchen and they did a damn good job. Food was bomb, even getting compliments from Mary's school friends Monday morning. Mary was vocal about what she saw and heard, quick to tell her uncle that he wasn’t any good, something he laughed off, smug and dismissive, assuming that she must have overheard this from her mother—which whether said or unsaid drove a deeper rift in their fragile relationship. 

	Dave and Bonnie’s relationship was complicated by the fact they didn’t communicate all that well—especially as they got older. Bonnie gave Dave the benefit of the doubt, but he doesn’t know that. Dave viewed the kitchen as his domicile, one where the heat was hot and chatter only added unnecessary pressure. He felt this way about a lot of things, especially when he was in school. It didn’t help that Bonnie would get in the face and be super tough when he was doing his homework. Bonnie is trying to rule the world and doesn’t need her family's name sullied because little old Dave can’t do his times' table. Bonnie made it to clear that he will become a member of the unsullied if he didn’t fix this real quick.  Bonnie was spoken to about this and changed her ways and style…..Limiting her berating and constant pressuring of Dave to when her parents weren’t home, especially early on in grade school. The only place Dave would find peace was the kitchen of the restaurant–because Bonnie was schmoozing the crowd–and the kitchen of their home–a place Bonnie never lingered as she was always watching her figure. 

	Mary wasn’t mean per say–like her mother–just bad at delivery when the blood starts to boil; ironically so was pizzeria, holding out as long as possible before creating a dinner to your door option. She was fair and as quick as she was to dish out criticism, she gave praise where praise was due; often telling her grandparents about all the compliments they got on weekend service. They were flattered but just thought it was the neighborhood kids being nice. Grandparents clearly didn’t go to elementary school in America because kids are really mean–something her friend group knows all too well–even before the days of finstas and whatnot.

	Mary–whose passion was strong but hadn’t been softened by living long enough to make her own mistakes–also couldn’t stand indifference. Her favorite bible quote–as religion was a big part of their lives, a product of her mother's “gentle push”--is telling. 

 “ The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge; fools despise wisdom and instruction.” (Proverbs 1:7) 
No. How about 

“You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself.” (Leviticus 19:18).
LOL No. She liked 

 “So, because you are lukewarm—neither hot nor cold—I am about to spit you out of my mouth” (Revelation 3:15-16)

	Interesting choice because her motivational tactics are definitely more old-testament than new. Gloom and doom often overpowered the boom. A veiled shot at her father Ivan, who she adored and thought the world of. But, Mary hated that her father never stepped up and said something to her uncle. A lot of empathy and understanding , all that church going he did with Mary by his side, he would protest. Her father is a humble man, who worked long hours in the cold but took pride in everything he did. Combined making things work and look pretty. Ivan has a muscular physique but wasn’t too jacked; strength without intimidation.  Same body type as his childhood friend— Yousef. A friendship that had their ups and down but never straying far from each other. 
 
	Ivan wouldn’t flex on ya but could hold his own in a fight…and finish it. A man who himself struggled with restraint vs. putting down an aggressor.   He wasn’t dumb as other cliched stories might lead you to believe. The man was smart, often fixing equipment in the restaurant that broke, something Mary would blame Dave for–without any investigation–relaying these suspicions with death stares that reminded him why he ran into the kitchen in the first place. In fact, the equipment repair guys would come into the store when they had hard-to-fix issues. Ivan was always delighted to answer questions and took pride in explaining things so thoroughly that others could apply it and make a living. This would infuriate both Mary– whose favorite subject  in economics  was  free market capitalism –and Dave–who always adored Ivan but hated that he was in on family stuff before him. Whenever Ivan was confronted about  either, for different reasons, he was surprised often invoking the defense that he didn’t realize he was doing it…..Something the restaurant repair guys are very thankful for to this day, making money they made off their repair business, subsequently  investing in the stock market–making them millions. All-time high investments and conversations, difficult to short. 

	Dave and Ivan have a unique friendship that differs based on the prism you look through.  Ivan always had a soft spot for Dave. Unaware as to why and oblivious in the moment, he always looked out for Dave. Ivan is a few years older than Dave so they never had any classes together. However, Ivan made it a point to say what's up to Dave in the hallway and tell the snot-nose kid to knock it off whenever Dave was on the receiving end of a hard time. Chewing the fat with him from time to time when their paths crossed… walking home late, each for different reasons. At the behest of his sister and parents, Dave stayed after for extra math help while Ivan hung out aimlessly in an empty gym throwing fastballs at a soccer net. Walking around the building hoping to ask a teacher a question that he already knew the answer til the janitor, kicked him out. Ivan did this for other kids, sure, but everyone noticed he did it a little more for Dave. They would talk baseball and math on the walk home, each a little more knowledgable than the other thought. Dave was apprehensive always wondering why  as to why this legit kid took a liking to him, subtly reassured by ivan’s calm answer that it's nice to have someone to walk home with. Cool by Dave,  now  comfortable taking the short route home, the one he normally avoided. The route that passed by the library where his sister would always do homework with her bestie—Bernadette— and the corner store where all the bigger kids in his grade would post up drinking soda-pop and cracking jokes at passer-byers. 

	The corner store that Ivan's cousin Lars ran. Lars comes from a good family and is much older then Ivan, but runs astray. He hasn’t graduated to actual criminal activity yet— only doing dumb stuff like breaking street-level windows with his boots, getting into fights, and prank calling the police station—but there’s a chance that these are precursors to something bigger. His family is happy he's holding down a job but little do they know his commitment to selling high-sodium beef jerky is just a guise for selling loosies to kids while hitting on whatever girls walkthrough. The girls flirt back,   in awe of  his  clout—enough to cut them a deals on pixie sticks and hair scrunchies—- and  his looks—- long shaggy blonde hair with a slender profile, stylish clothes–products of his side hustle. Ivan, especially in elementary school, took heed of the warnings from his parents about Lars keeping interactions to a minimum. Friendly enough not to participate in some ill-schemed plan but  never letting on, smart and confident enough to come up with an excuse when Lars needed him to “help out real quick”.
 Lars never really gave Dave any trouble but his minions would. The corner-store boys comprised a diverse subset of kids . A watering hole for interaction, like a work mixer. Most kids stay for a while but the bad ones–the ones who never developed interests— never grew away. The corner store kids, the ones who lingered, wouldn’t crack jokes when Ivan was around–not because he's Lars cousin but because everyone knew he could hold his own—but they slipped up once.  Dave and Ivan  walking home on a crisp autumn day, Ivan with a hood-on and his back to the “coke crew”–as Lars was outside holding court with his loyal, not so bright, subjects. “Whose your boyfriend?” asked Conor lawrence, a chunky kid who just….. sucks–not for any particular reason but just in general.
 
	Lars laughs, even though he recognizes Ivan's hoodie, the same one he wears to family gatherings. The same hoodie Ivan wears when  Lars asks him to hide some liquor at family parties, something Ivan does every once and a while when he runs out of excuses. Ivan lowers his hood, smiles, waves, and tells them to have a good day—as they huddle in a corner to avoid the consequences of their actions—after he mumbles under his breath “Clearly not your mothers because you got bigger tit’s then she does”. Something that apparently runs in the family and only Dave hears, saving it for when Ivan’s not around and his back’s to the wall. Ivan did that a lot, giving his best disses to someone else. Maybe he didn’t need them. Maybe he felt guilty bringing a bazooka to a knife-fight. Maybe he’s got some thick skin. Confrontation avoided as they walk off, david chuckling and Lars consoling the corner boys confused by david’s reaction. 

 	Either way, Ivan was an integral part of their lives and the restaurants. Even with all this under his belt…he still viewed himself as an outsider within the restaurant–an insecurity that’s hard to shake. Worried that the sweaty equity he built up could never overcome the thickness of blood. Thankfully he never let this clot travel to his heart. His love story developed in one of the most unlikely of places….middle school after school chorus. Ivan……voice of an angel. Who knew? The guy didn’t know an A flat from a T square but his pitch was near perfect. So much so that even the bullies at school, the ones who were out of Lar’s pull, bullied him into joining the chorus. So much so they even show up to the recitals–something they never do–standing, freeing seats for people who haven't heard him or may doubt his abilities. Were they missing out? Nah the music sounds just as good from the outside as it does the front row, a testament to his reach. 

	Ivan, modest when it comes to his hidden talents, really found his footing in chorus–something he didn’t necessarily stick with but something that he liked doing. He didn’t sway awkwardly but moves about, putting emphasis on songs with intonation and body movements. Leaning into parts–both literally and figuratively–which invigorated the audience…. and his choir members alike. Choir members that are normally cutthroat, think black swan, but ones who only took out their knives to sharpen it on a rock. Surprisingly he couldn’t slow dance or hit you with a whip or a nana–a dance the “youngins” taught him for the, as he likes to call it,  “tik tac”--but he could make you feel the passion of a song with his voice and general mannerisms. His standing in chorus only added to pool of women who were attracted to him. He wasn’t unbelievably attractive but he had aspects that appealed to a broad group of broads. Singing, generally athletic physique and the ability to hold a conversation made hi'm a darkhorse favorite to win “most likely to take the cheerleader, art geek  preachers daughter and capitain of the math olympiad to pound town”.....something that he never did. Win the award or actually go to pound town?. Not sure. But it was something he was never really aware or concerned of. . Too cool for school …No…. Modest. Something that seems to be a theme in his friend group. 

	Nice speaking voice-aside, Bonnie wasn’t much of a singer but could mouth words with the best of them. She only really joined the chorus because one of her bestie did–#rideordie. Well, this was the story she told her friends and family. Maybe she just wanted to make sure Dave was continuing to go extra help afraid  the other kids' crude remarks may cause him to sway in the wrong direction…something Dave casually mentioned to his father at an impromptu ice-cream celebration spearheaded by Dave’s improvement in math. Maybe it's because the chorus also got to go on a trip to see the tree in NYC , a pot sweetner. 

	Ultimately, she just liked standing in the music room for an hour or so on a Tuesday listening to bomb songs  letting her mind wander with no pressure for her to sing,  letting the words and beat direct her thoughts. It’s sure better than being in the restaurant on Tuesdays when the supplier makes his grand delivery….kinda like her man in chorus. Delivery day’s always brought about big fights between Mary's grandfather and the guy who delivered the supplies. Two old guys  who bicker and pout. Each giving the other a hard time in order to prove to themselves and their wives that neither is getting screwed over. Orders short or the produce wasn’t fresh or post-dated checks that both parties held their breath depositing; It was something or another. Didn’t help that the kitchen was small,  hot and both guys had bellies and personalities that stuck out.  However, at the end of the day supply needs demand and demand needs supply so push never came to shove. Each sensible enough to know the most fruitful relationships have ebbs and flow, gives and takes. Neither determined fairness by looking at one order but by looking at the past 10…. both  subscribing to the school of thought….. it’s worse to screw someone over than to get screwed over. Thank God for their pockets, stomachs, and hearts they avoided the former.  

	But yeah, besides steering clear of the pissing contest where there was a lot of bark and even more stage fright, Bonnie liked the peace that comes from a loud music room where many voices become one. Where each person can do as much or as little and the music…would do the rest . Strengths in numbers, especially when you have others to pick up the slack….and others who take a step back….like luka doncic. Everyone picked their role and contributed accordingly. Something she wants the restaurant to become…..even as one–in particular- sang off-key.
In fact that’s how the two got cozy. As little William, Connor Lawrence’s brother, was moved to the back for having a voice fit for a solo in a silent movie…A voice only rivaled by Charlie Chaplain’s and an attitude that was better mute.  That’s when ivan got the call from the bullpen to come to the front, alongside Bonnie. If Bonnie only mouthed lyrics then how did she get to the front? She was short and wore dope apparel– specifically a colorful yellow sweater that made her stick out…or maybe it was fate. The one-two punch where each did a whole bunch.  She clearly attracted the attention, but diverted to the guy who stood alongside her–the guy with the heat…the guy–after a few years of hand-holding and casual courtship– she would start dating. Bonnie's messages were always subtle.. a touch on the hand here, a hair flip there. Ivan wasn’t… as his singing went to the next level, something people didn’t think was possible. Ivan was coy but ready to pounce when he sees an opening and made sure to go to Jerry's whenever he had a hunger for more.
 
	He always thanked the wait staff and cleaned up after his mess…better than the busboy. Team player and super nice, sure, but more so because he was just happy to be around Bonnie, doing a job so she didn’t have too. The friendship blossomed opening up each other, evolving into lovers. Wasn’t easy. Some bumps in-between on the on-deck circle that readied them for the next chapter. 

